README.md, before:

# Official server side JavaScript sdk for [Original](https://getoriginal.com) API

## Table of Contents

- [About Original](#-about-original)
- [Getting Started](#-getting-started)
- [Documentation](#-documentation)
  - [Initialization](#initialization)
  - [User](#user)
  - [Asset](#asset)
  - [Collection](#collection)
  - [Transfer](#transfer)
  - [Burn](#burn)
  - [Deposit](#deposit)
- [Development Setup](#-development-setup-in-combination-with-our-sdk)

## 📝 About Original

You can request access for an Original account at our [Request Access](https://getoriginal.com/contact-us/) page.

## ✨ Getting started

Install Original using [`npm`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jest):

```bash
npm install original-sdk
```

or with yarn [`yarn`](https://yarnpkg.com/en/package/jest):

```bash
yarn add original-sdk
```

## 📚 Documentation

### Initialization

The Original SDK is set up to expose and type all values returned from the Original API.

Import the sdk with using commonjs or es6 imports.

Read the full [Original API documentation](https://docs.getoriginal.com).

```typescript
const { OriginalClient } = require('original-sdk');
//or
import { OriginalClient } from 'original-sdk';
```

Create a new instance of the Original client by passing in your api key and api key secret.

```typescript
const client = new OriginalClient('YOUR_API_KEY', 'API_KEY_SECRET');
```

### User

The user methods exposed by the sdk are used to create and retrieve users from the Original API.

```typescript
// create a new user, by passing in the <UserParams> type
// returns the uid of the newly created user
const newUserUid = await client.createUser({ email: 'YOUR_EMAIL', client_id: 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID' });

// gets a user by uid, will throw a 404 Not Found error if the user does not exist
// returns a <User> type
const user = await client.getUser(newUserUid);

// gets a user by email or client_id
// will return a <User> type if the user exists, otherwise will return null
const userByEmail = await client.getUserByEmail('YOUR_EMAIL');

const userByClientId = await client.getUserByClientId('YOUR_CLIENT_ID');
```

### Asset

The asset methods exposed by the sdk are used to create (mint) assets and retrieve assets from the Original API.

```typescript
// prepare the new asset params following the <AssetParams> type
const newAssetParams =
{
    "user_uid": "324167489835",
    "client_id": "client_id_1",
    "collection_uid": "221137489875",
    "data": {
        "name": "Dave Starbelly",
        "unique_name": true,
        "image_url": "https://storage.googleapis.com/opensea-prod.appspot.com/puffs/3.png",
        "store_image_on_ipfs": true,
        "description": "Friendly OpenSea Creature that enjoys long swims in the ocean.",
        "external_url": "https://openseacreatures.io/3",
        "attributes": [
            {
                "trait_type": "Base",
                "value": "Starfish"
            },
            {
                "trait_type": "Eyes",
                "value": "Big"
            },
            {
                "trait_type": "Aqua Power",
                "display_type": "boost_number",
                "value": 40
            },
            {
                "trait_type": "Stamina Increase",
                "display_type": "boost_percentage",
                "value": 10
            },
        ]
    }
}

// create a new asset, by passing in the <AssetParams> type
// returns the uid of the newly created asset
const newAssetUid = await client.createAsset(newAssetParams);

// gets an asset by uid, will throw a 404 Not Found error if the asset does not exist
// returns a <Asset> type
const asset = await client.getAsset(newAssetUid);

// gets assets by the owner uid
// will return a list of <Asset>[] owned by the user
const assets = await client.getAssetsByUserUid(newUserUid)

// prepare the edit asset params following the <EditAssetParams> type
const editAssetData =
  {
        "name": "Dave Starbelly Edited",
        "unique_name": true,
        "description": "Friendly OpenSea Creature that enjoys long swims in the ocean. Edited
        "attributes": [
            {
                "trait_type": "Base",
                "value": "Starfish"
            },
        ]
    }

// edits an asset by uid, by passing in the <EditAssetParams> type
// returns success true or false
const editAsset = await client.editAsset(newAssetUid, editAssetData);
```

### Collection

The collection methods exposed by the sdk are used to retrieve collection details from the Original API.

```typescript
// gets a collection by uid, will throw a 404 Not Found error if the collection does not exist
// returns a <Collection> type
const collection = await client.getCollection('221137489875');
```

### Transfer

The transfer methods exposed by the sdk are used to transfer assets from one user to another wallet.

```typescript
// create a transfer of an asset, by passing in the <TransferParams> type
// returns the uid of the newly created transfer
const newTransferUid = await client.createTransfer({
  asset_uid: newAssetUid,
  from_user_uid: newUserUid,
  to_address: '0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045',
});

// gets a transfer by uid, will throw a 404 Not Found error if the transfer does not exist
// returns a <Transfer> type
const transfer = await client.getTransfer(newTransferUid);

// gets transfers by user uid
// will return a list of <Transfer>[] for the asset
const transfers = await client.getTransfersByUserUid(newUserUid);
```

### Burn

The burn methods exposed by the sdk are used to burn assets from a user's wallet.

```typescript
// create a burn of an asset, by passing in the <BurnParams> type
// returns the uid of the newly created burn
const newBurnUid = await client.createBurn({
  asset_uid: newAssetUid,
  user_uid: newUserUid,
});

// gets a burn by uid, will throw a 404 Not Found error if the burn does not exist
// returns a <Burn> type
const burn = await client.getBurn(newBurnUid);

// gets burns by user uid
// will return a list of <Burn>[] for the asset
const burns = await client.getBurnsByUserUid(newUserUid);
```

### Deposit

The deposit methods exposed by the sdk are retrieve the details needed to deposit assets to a user

```typescript
// gets a deposit by uid, will throw a 404 Not Found error if the user does not exist
// returns a <Deposit> type
const deposit = await client.getDeposit(newUserUid);
```

## 🔗 (Optional) Development Setup in Combination with our SDK

### Connect to [Original SDK](https://github.com/GetOriginal/original-js)

Run this in project root

```shell
yarn link
```

Run this in your local project

```shell
yarn link original-sdk
yarn dev
```

Commit message:

feat: [ORI-1880] Add development environment and URL

README.md, after:

# Official server side JavaScript sdk for [Original](https://getoriginal.com) API

## Table of Contents

- [About Original](#-about-original)
- [Getting Started](#-getting-started)
- [Documentation](#-documentation)
  - [Initialization](#initialization)
  - [User](#user)
  - [Asset](#asset)
  - [Collection](#collection)
  - [Transfer](#transfer)
  - [Burn](#burn)
  - [Deposit](#deposit)
- [Development Setup](#-development-setup-in-combination-with-our-sdk)

## 📝 About Original

You can request access for an Original account at our [Request Access](https://getoriginal.com/contact-us/) page.

## ✨ Getting started

Install Original using [`npm`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jest):

```bash
npm install original-sdk
```

or with yarn [`yarn`](https://yarnpkg.com/en/package/jest):

```bash
yarn add original-sdk
```

## 📚 Documentation

### Initialization

The Original SDK is set up to expose and type all values returned from the Original API.

Import the sdk with using commonjs or es6 imports.

Read the full [Original API documentation](https://docs.getoriginal.com).

```typescript
const { OriginalClient } = require('original-sdk');
//or
import { OriginalClient } from 'original-sdk';
```

Create a new instance of the Original client by passing in your api key and api secret with
the environment associated with that app.

Development:

```typescript
const client = new OriginalClient('YOUR_DEV_APP_API_KEY', 'YOUR_DEV_APP_SECRET', { env: Environment.Development });
```

Production:

```typescript
const client = new OriginalClient('YOUR_PROD_APP_API_KEY', 'YOUR_PROD_APP_SECRET', { env: Environment.Production });
```

NOTE: If you do not pass the environment, it will default to Production.

### User

The user methods exposed by the sdk are used to create and retrieve users from the Original API.

```typescript
// create a new user, by passing in the <UserParams> type
// returns the uid of the newly created user
const newUserUid = await client.createUser({ email: 'YOUR_EMAIL', client_id: 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID' });

// gets a user by uid, will throw a 404 Not Found error if the user does not exist
// returns a <User> type
const user = await client.getUser(newUserUid);

// gets a user by email or client_id
// will return a <User> type if the user exists, otherwise will return null
const userByEmail = await client.getUserByEmail('YOUR_EMAIL');

const userByClientId = await client.getUserByClientId('YOUR_CLIENT_ID');
```

### Asset

The asset methods exposed by the sdk are used to create (mint) assets and retrieve assets from the Original API.

```typescript
// prepare the new asset params following the <AssetParams> type
const newAssetParams =
{
    "user_uid": "324167489835",
    "client_id": "client_id_1",
    "collection_uid": "221137489875",
    "data": {
        "name": "Dave Starbelly",
        "unique_name": true,
        "image_url": "https://storage.googleapis.com/opensea-prod.appspot.com/puffs/3.png",
        "store_image_on_ipfs": true,
        "description": "Friendly OpenSea Creature that enjoys long swims in the ocean.",
        "external_url": "https://openseacreatures.io/3",
        "attributes": [
            {
                "trait_type": "Base",
                "value": "Starfish"
            },
            {
                "trait_type": "Eyes",
                "value": "Big"
            },
            {
                "trait_type": "Aqua Power",
                "display_type": "boost_number",
                "value": 40
            },
            {
                "trait_type": "Stamina Increase",
                "display_type": "boost_percentage",
                "value": 10
            },
        ]
    }
}

// create a new asset, by passing in the <AssetParams> type
// returns the uid of the newly created asset
const newAssetUid = await client.createAsset(newAssetParams);

// gets an asset by uid, will throw a 404 Not Found error if the asset does not exist
// returns a <Asset> type
const asset = await client.getAsset(newAssetUid);

// gets assets by the owner uid
// will return a list of <Asset>[] owned by the user
const assets = await client.getAssetsByUserUid(newUserUid)

// prepare the edit asset params following the <EditAssetParams> type
const editAssetData =
  {
        "name": "Dave Starbelly Edited",
        "unique_name": true,
        "description": "Friendly OpenSea Creature that enjoys long swims in the ocean. Edited
        "attributes": [
            {
                "trait_type": "Base",
                "value": "Starfish"
            },
        ]
    }

// edits an asset by uid, by passing in the <EditAssetParams> type
// returns success true or false
const editAsset = await client.editAsset(newAssetUid, editAssetData);
```

### Collection

The collection methods exposed by the sdk are used to retrieve collection details from the Original API.

```typescript
// gets a collection by uid, will throw a 404 Not Found error if the collection does not exist
// returns a <Collection> type
const collection = await client.getCollection('221137489875');
```

### Transfer

The transfer methods exposed by the sdk are used to transfer assets from one user to another wallet.

```typescript
// create a transfer of an asset, by passing in the <TransferParams> type
// returns the uid of the newly created transfer
const newTransferUid = await client.createTransfer({
  asset_uid: newAssetUid,
  from_user_uid: newUserUid,
  to_address: '0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045',
});

// gets a transfer by uid, will throw a 404 Not Found error if the transfer does not exist
// returns a <Transfer> type
const transfer = await client.getTransfer(newTransferUid);

// gets transfers by user uid
// will return a list of <Transfer>[] for the asset
const transfers = await client.getTransfersByUserUid(newUserUid);
```

### Burn

The burn methods exposed by the sdk are used to burn assets from a user's wallet.

```typescript
// create a burn of an asset, by passing in the <BurnParams> type
// returns the uid of the newly created burn
const newBurnUid = await client.createBurn({
  asset_uid: newAssetUid,
  user_uid: newUserUid,
});

// gets a burn by uid, will throw a 404 Not Found error if the burn does not exist
// returns a <Burn> type
const burn = await client.getBurn(newBurnUid);

// gets burns by user uid
// will return a list of <Burn>[] for the asset
const burns = await client.getBurnsByUserUid(newUserUid);
```

### Deposit

The deposit methods exposed by the sdk are retrieve the details needed to deposit assets to a user

```typescript
// gets a deposit by uid, will throw a 404 Not Found error if the user does not exist
// returns a <Deposit> type
const deposit = await client.getDeposit(newUserUid);
```

## 🔗 (Optional) Development Setup in Combination with our SDK

### Connect to [Original SDK](https://github.com/GetOriginal/original-js)

Run this in project root

```shell
yarn link
```

Run this in your local project

```shell
yarn link original-sdk
yarn dev
```
